README.md, before:

# Cinema Web Application Project 

## Project Description
This repository is to show the development and creation of an advance website application for a selected cinema franchise, using the full MERN stack principle. Which involves the use of: **Mongo DB**, **Express**, **React** and **Node.JS**. The frontend of the application will be built using React with CSS styling, while the backend will be built using Mongo/Mongoose, Express and Node. The functionality of our code is tested using **Chai**, **Istanbul** and **Mocha**. To determine if we reach test coverage that is ideal for industry standards. Overall, this README file will give you the neccessary information to obtain a working version of this application on your local machine. 

### Test Coverage: 
~

## Getting Started
The instructions below will help you get a version of this project up and running in a local environment or on ypur local machine for developing and testing purposes. Please see the **Prerequisites** section of this README and the deployment section for further details about setting up the live environment. 

## Prerequisites
The information below are the required software needed to host this project on your local environment/machine, With links and resources to their URL to download the software. 
Check the download section of the README, to install the neccessary software by following the weblinks.

The required software:

- **Version Control System: Git**
- **GitHub Account**
- **Postman**
- **Visual Studio Code** 
- **Node.JS** 
- **Mongo DB**
- **Express**

## Downloads

- **Version control system:** 
    * [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- **GitHub Account:** 
    * [GitHub](https://github.com/)

- **Postman:**
    * [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) 

- **Visual Studio Code:**
    * [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) 

- **Mongo DB:**
    * [Mongo DB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)

- **Node.JS:**
    * [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)


## Installation
This section gives a list of instructions that are needed to download the software to get a devlopment environment running, which are listed in the prerequisites section of the README. 

 1. 

## Testing 
 - For testing.. 

## Further Contribution
Please feel free to contribute by adding new features to this project:

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/qasidd/trap-mern-project>)
2. Create a new feature branch, remember to branch out of master/main (`git checkout -b <new feature branch name>`)
3. Add these changes to your staging area (`git add .`)
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add something'`)
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin <feature branch name>`)
6. Create a new Pull Request

## Deployment/Running The Application
As mention before the backend is written using Node.js and Express with some intergation from Mongo DB. Before running the whole application make sure the backend is connected to Mongo database. 

To run the backend:
```bash
cd backend
npm install
npm start
```

### Built With
 * Full MERN stack  

### Authors 

 - Siddhartha Gurung (Owner of repository)
 - Waleed Tahir
 - Hamza Pervez
 - Ayesha Raja 
 - Daniel Ahuchogu
 
### License
This project is licensed under the MIT license - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details 

### References
 - **React Strap/BootStrap for React**. Available at: https://react-bootstrap.github.io/  
 - **React Semantic UI**. Available at: https://react.semantic-ui.com/
 
### Acknowledgments
 - QA Academy 
 - Savannah Vaith

Commit message:

DA: Added info to deployment

README.md, after:

# Cinema Web Application Project 

## Project Description
This repository is to show the development and creation of an advance website application for a selected cinema franchise, using the full MERN stack principle. Which involves the use of: **Mongo DB**, **Express**, **React** and **Node.JS**. The frontend of the application will be built using React with CSS styling, while the backend will be built using Mongo/Mongoose, Express and Node. The functionality of our code is tested using **Chai**, **Istanbul** and **Mocha**. To determine if we reach test coverage that is ideal for industry standards. Overall, this README file will give you the neccessary information to obtain a working version of this application on your local machine. 

### Test Coverage: 
~

## Getting Started
The instructions below will help you get a version of this project up and running in a local environment or on ypur local machine for developing and testing purposes. Please see the **Prerequisites** section of this README and the deployment section for further details about setting up the live environment. 

## Prerequisites
The information below are the required software needed to host this project on your local environment/machine, With links and resources to their URL to download the software. 
Check the download section of the README, to install the neccessary software by following the weblinks.

The required software:
- **Version Control System: Git**
- **GitHub Account**
- **Postman**
- **Visual Studio Code** 
- **Node.JS** 
- **Mongo DB**
- **Express**

## Downloads

- **Version control system:** 
    * [Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)

- **GitHub Account:** 
    * [GitHub](https://github.com/)

- **Postman:**
    * [Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/) 

- **Visual Studio Code:**
    * [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) 

- **Mongo DB:**
    * [Mongo DB](https://www.mongodb.com/try/download/community)

- **Node.JS:**
    * [Node.JS](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)


## Installation
This section gives a list of instructions that are needed to download the software to get a devlopment environment running, which are listed in the prerequisites section of the README. 

 1. 

## Testing 
 - For testing.. 

## Further Contribution
Please feel free to contribute by adding new features to this project:

1. Fork it (<https://github.com/qasidd/trap-mern-project>)
2. Create a new feature branch, remember to branch out of master/main (`git checkout -b <new feature branch name>`)
3. Add these changes to your staging area (`git add .`)
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add something'`)
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin <feature branch name>`)
6. Create a new Pull Request

## Deployment/Running The Application
As mention before the backend is written using Node.js and Express with some intergation from Mongo DB. Before running the whole application make sure the backend is connected to Mongo database. 

**To run the backend:**

```bash
-cd backend
npm install
npm start
```

*Note:* 
- *The application will open on a new server port i.e. http://localhost:3000/*
- *It is crucial to use the command `npm install` or `npm i` to have all the node modules, package-lock.json and package.json files added to the local machine*

Most of the frontend is built using React with CSS and other packages such as reactstrap. 

**To run the frontend:**

```bash
-cd frontend
npm install
npm start
```

*Note:* 
- *The application will open on a new server port i.e. http://localhost:3001/*
- *It is crucial to use the command `npm install` or `npm i` to have all the node modules, package-lock.json and package.json files added to the local machine*


### Built With
 - Full MERN stack  

### Authors 
 - Siddhartha Gurung (Owner of repository)
 - Waleed Tahir
 - Hamza Pervez
 - Ayesha Raja 
 - Daniel Ahuchogu
 
### License
This project is licensed under the MIT license - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details 

### References
 - **React Strap/BootStrap for React**. *Available at: https://react-bootstrap.github.io/* 
 - **React Semantic UI**. *Available at: https://react.semantic-ui.com/*
 
### Acknowledgments
 - QA Academy 
 - Savannah Vaith
